So welcome to this episode of the Yahweh
Vlog.
We're returning our attention to the
series called Returning to the Garden.
We are now at the point that Yahweh,
after having chastised Hasatan, Satan,
the serpent,
he's turning his attention to the devil's
little helpers because life would be more
challenging for them and it would be quite
different for them.
She would do as they were, well,
as she was originally designed,
which would mean that she would be
supporting the man,
no matter how challenging and undesirable
that would be.
the garden's deadbeats were being served a
giant slice of reality.
What I don't think anyone has realized
prior to our series on returning to the
garden is that it's Yahweh who caused the
fall of man.
And he did so because he grew bored
with Adam.
Adam was conceived to work and yet he
didn't,
he showed no initiative whatsoever.
He was supposed to listen and respond
appropriately, but he didn't.
He was...
specifically designed to be observant
because Yahweh wanted him to earn the
right such that he could be trusted to
be taken out of the garden and explore
the universe with God.
And yet he didn't seem to have any
interest in that as well.
And so it became exceedingly boring for
God.
found man to be uninteresting, uninvolved,
and unreliable,
and therefore God specifically caused the
fall of man.
And as we have gone through this story,
we have come to realize many things,
such as the fact that
The two trees in the garden are the
stars of the show.
It's the Tree of Lives and the Tree
of Knowledge.
Most of the attention in this particular
episode was on the Tree of Knowledge.
And these two trees represent the same two
individuals that were highlighted earlier
in the Torah in the first chapter.
This is now the second and third.
And they were presented as the greater and
lesser luminaries.
Now they are the Tree of Lives and
the Tree of Knowledge.
We also determined that the Choter,
which is one of the most interesting
prophecies,
probably the single most interesting
prophecy pursuant to our time,
taking the entire fourteenth proverb and
the entire eleventh chapter of Yahshua to
explain His purpose and His unique
position.
that the Chödr is in fact the tree
of knowledge,
that there is nothing that differentiates
them at all.
So there are a lot of interesting
insights.
We were able to deduce the fact that
Chawa was created to be supportive of man,
helping the man.
And yet she turned out to be a
hindrance to him.
So it is a very interesting story.
And the very fact that God now has
escorted them out of the garden,
he's having his last conversation with
them,
tells us that God was going to give
us as humans, humans with a nesama,
with a conscience,
six thousand years to get our act
together.
And over the course of six thousand years,
God expected that there would be someone
who would come to
appreciate what he was saying,
who would listen to him,
who would respond accordingly,
who could be counted upon to do what
needed to be done, who,
when he makes a mistake or falls,
would get back up and demonstrate that he
could be trusted,
and that there would be someone
extraordinarily observant.
That's why he is called the Nakkar,
the observant foreigner,
and that this individual would call many
more
back to yahweh and that collectively we
would end up in a situation where we're
invited back into the garden we have a
thousand years now uh at least with a
select few to get our act together and
demonstrate to yahweh that we are in fact
deserving of
being able to explore the universe with
him.
And in this regard, Gan Eden and Sukkah,
the seventh of Yahweh's Moed Mikra,
are coterminous.
Sukkah is about bringing us back to the
garden.
And in year six thousand Yahweh,
which is twenty thirty three,
just eight years from now,
we're having this opportunity again for
this mortal remnant of Israel to be
allowed back into the garden.
to demonstrate that we can do better than
Adam did, six thousand years ago,
and thereby earned Yahweh's trust.
So as we consider the following
assessment,
it is instructive to know that it was
directed towards this man and this woman.
And so while it is natural to want
to extrapolate beyond them,
we can be certain that Yahweh was
specifically addressing what had gone
wrong in the garden,
and we can learn from it.
So he said to the woman,
I will substantially and demonstrably
increase.
I will in magnitude,
quantity and time multiply the intensity
of your labor,
your expenditure of energy and your great
work, which will be challenging.
and also in association with your
childbearing,
with your pregnancy and the period of
gestation, giving birth,
addressing the intensification of pains
and pleasures of sex and of rearing
children.
With considerable physical effort and hard
work, you will bear sons.
And toward your man,
your overwhelming emotions and feelings,
along with your irresistible desire to
dominate,
mixed in with your strong sexual urges and
abundant longings.
They're going to make him responsible for
educating you,
for influencing you through dialogue and
by painting word pictures which explain
the situation, thereby governing you.
with you by supervising you.
He himself will share narrative symbolic
meanings with you such that he will be
more in charge than you as he uses
vivid examples and pithy quotes to rule
with you.
Genesis, the first book of the Torah.
Now we're in the third chapter, three,
sixteen.
So when we consider God's pronouncement
within the context that we have just
witnessed,
we find affirmations of prior conclusions.
Adam and Chawa were far too passive.
There is no indication that they made any
contribution to the environment of the
garden.
And so now that they were out of
the garden,
they would have to struggle to survive.
It's only fair.
They would go from lounging around all day
to an ordeal that would be enormously
challenging for them.
It's been a common mistake over the ages
to narrow the implications of ichabon ata,
your physical labor, with heron ata,
your pregnancy and bearing children.
With the wa between them,
one is in addition to the other.
That is to say that all forms of
work will be physically taxing,
including bearing and raising children.
Yawa not only reinforced the realization
that conceiving and rearing children would
be one of life's greatest challenges,
he was overwhelmingly telling Chawa that
since she had foregone her role,
which was to work with and support man,
that, well,
she would now have to do that very
thing for them to survive outside the
garden.
And of course,
Chawa did have three sons,
and she flunked motherhood.
On a broader note,
it would require an enormous expenditure
of energy to regenerate the Tree of
Knowledge and to distribute its fruit,
the result of which would be to bring
children into the covenant family.
None of it would be easy,
as I can surely attest.
Now, in the garden,
there was no indication that Adam showed
any initiative.
He didn't appear to teach or guide Shalwa.
Likewise,
there is no mention of anything that the
woman did that might be seen as beneficial
for the man,
and that's why she was conceived.
Not wanting their ineptitude to continue,
God naturally redirected the woman's
attention and
reaffirmed the man's role and their
relationship.
They had been deadbeats,
but they would not be deadbeats going
forward or they wouldn't survive.
And when so doing,
we find the first indication of a fairly
obvious dichotomy.
Women generally are more emotional than
men,
and men are prone to organize their
thoughts rationally.
Chawa would be driven by shashuka,
emotional feelings and strong desires.
This would then require man to do a
better job of establishing the paradigm
under which they would govern their lives.
For humankind to prevail,
man would have to lead and he would
have to educate.
Therefore, through this narrative,
Yawa was telling us what went wrong in
the garden and how to fix it.
This wasn't a punishment,
it was instead guidance.
We were instructed to build our families
through hard work and sound teaching.
And we are more complete when reason and
emotion coalesce.
Yau explained the reasons behind and the
resulting consequence of the fall of man.
So now separated from God,
This advice is for our benefit.
Then to the man, he said,
because you have listened to the voice of
your woman and you have continuously
consumed from the at the tree.
which for the benefit of the relationship
and to show the proper way to get
the most out of life,
I directed you saying you should not make
a habit of devouring or destroying from
him or it, this ha-adama,
the earth and the bloody red man,
have now been hindered in an annoying
manner based upon the actions of others
for a while.
which has actually inflicted something
that is harmful.
And in this way,
this has occurred because of you.
So with hard work, strenuous labor,
and challenging physical effort,
you will continually consume from it all
of the days of your lives.
Barbara Sheath, in the beginning,
Genesis three,
So there's a number of lessons here.
Lesson one is, well,
if you wanna have a productive life and
you wanna spend any time around God,
listen to Yahweh.
Lesson two,
if you want a positive outcome as opposed
to the negative one that these two
endured, follow Yahweh's advice.
Lesson three should be obvious and yet it
is the bane of religion.
Do not value human words.
over God's words.
Lesson four,
don't make a habit of annoying God,
which these two absolutely did and
regularly.
Lesson five,
Yahweh's promises are reliable.
If he tells you this is cause and
consequence, you can bank on it.
Lesson six, engage.
Make a contribution if you want to impress
God, if you want to earn his trust.
Lesson seven,
if you want to understand Yahweh,
be especially observant and contemplative.
So in this case,
the fall of man became inevitable because
Adam did not listen and he showed no
initiative.
The man paid no attention to anything God
said and he contributed nothing.
essentially destroying the relationship
humankind has consistently valued its own
rhetoric over yahweh's instructions
religion is the consequence moreover
religion has backfired on women in
particular because it is used by men to
control them the difference between
teaching and tyranny is not only enormous
the value of one and the cost of
the other
is the lesson that humanity has long
failed to grasp.
Yahweh's issue with mankind is habitual
behavior rather than a chance mistake,
and that has become evident throughout
this instruction.
The teaching regarding the tree was
consistently conveyed in the imperfect
conjugation, which is to say,
don't continually devour it.
But both Chawa and Adam admitted that
their consumption was ongoing.
In fact,
we found Adam hanging out in the tree
when Yahweh questioned him.
The reason that this is important is that
we are no longer guilty of poor judgment
once we learn from our mistakes and choose
a better course of action.
I was once religious.
I was once political.
I am neither.
I'm not guilty of either anymore.
Now this is why Yahweh asks us to
walk away from the confounding nature of
Babel, country and religion,
the intermixing of politics and religion,
rather than insist that we never venture
in that direction in the first place.
It's so much better when God just says,
stop doing that thing.
Now this note,
it is one thing to have been misled
and then to have come upon the truth.
giving up the religious lie for the joys
of a relationship.
And that's important.
We are being encouraged to forego having
been misled,
to cling to the truth once we know
it and to give up the deceptions that
have led us astray.
But of course,
it's another to have been shown what
Yahweh expects of us,
to have embraced it and then to turn
against it.
which you had learned to somehow satiate a
personal desire.
And that's what happened in the garden.
There is no revolving door to God's home.
You can enter the covenant on Yahweh's
terms and you can leave it on yours.
But if you do,
there is no coming back.
You will have proven
that you cannot be trusted.
We're reminded that this whole story
played out around the Tree of Knowledge.
Its fruit was for another time and for
other individuals.
But even then,
to covet it and then reject it is
a crime with a serious consequence and
cost.
By prematurely
releasing evil on a world equipped to,
or ill-equipped, I should say,
to suppress it with sound instruction.
Ha-adamah,
the earth was cursed for a long time
as the growth of man was stymied.
We became particularly annoying to God.
He was frustrated that he had even
conceived us, regretting it.
The most debilitating of the plagues would
be man's propensity to conceive gods in
man's image.
And of course,
through no fault of his own,
it would make the job of the Atama,
this bloody red man of the earth,
all the more difficult,
even at times exasperating and
infuriating.
So many lies to impugn.
The surest way to prove one's worth with
God is to engage,
offering something of value.
As was the case with the ark,
Yahweh has provided a full set of
instructions.
So now the burden really is on us.
We can either act or God will pass
us by and he will find someone who
will listen and engage.
Lazy and listless dependents are just
lousy partners.
Therefore,
for one's life to become two lives,
we must contribute during the first of
them.
Such are the lessons of the garden.
Such has been the case with the
reestablishment and growth of the tree of
knowledge.
It is why the story has been told
this way.
And I hope you're wiser for it.
It is seldom discussed,
mostly as a result of misleading
translations,
but Adam and Chawa were assessed and
treated quite similarly.
Ishibon was applied to both.
Life would be challenging by design and
necessity for man and woman.
This is God's intent.
since we were told at the outset that
Adam was placed in the garden to pay
attention to it and to work in it.
Contributory labor and productive industry
is not a punishment because work has its
rewards.
It's highly valued by God.
Life's greatest achievements are produced
when we collaborate with Yahweh.
Doe David,
who is the exemplar for us all,
was often called Yahweh's Ebed,
his coworker.
Well, in the garden,
Adam was clearly coddled.
That would not be the case once dismissed
from it.
And yet amidst the briars,
a choder would emerge.
from ha-adamah,
and eventually restore the relationship.
Well, at least for some.
This, like so much of the Torah,
is written such that what begins harshly
can lead in one or two directions to
degeneration and death or restoration in
life.
The choice is yours.
The text of Bar Reshith,
Genesis three reads,
Disgusting thorn bushes that do not bear
fruit, detestable and loathsome,
unpredictable,
unproductive vegetation and abhorrent,
irritating plants,
twisted and splinter like as an awakening
during the summer.
and thistles used to goad and control
prickly plants,
which are of no value and are used
to restrict access,
which choke out the productive plants,
it will produce for you.
So you will consume these plants of the
open environs.
By the sweat of your brow,
you will eat bread and you will devour
war, a call like him.
until the restoring witness returns to
transform you.
Doing so by way of the Atama.
Ha Atama,
the bloody red man of the earth,
or unto the ground.
From it and by it,
you were obtained and will be received at
a moment in time.
Lakash, you were grasped.
and will be collected.
You were brought forth and will be
received at the proper period.
Now,
this is because you are a collection of
particles comprising matter,
even grayish dust and ash.
And among dust or by ash,
you will return,
either be brought back or restored
forevermore.
Shubh.
you will be turned back again or changed
and transformed with ongoing implications
throughout time.
Profoundly stated in Baba Rashid in the
beginning, the third chapter of the Torah,
Genesis three, nineteen.
Now in the garden.
They had been given everything they needed
for a joyous and fulfilling,
even meaningful and productive life, but.
They simply offered nothing back in
return.
That made them parasites, not partners.
And that situation was not conducive to a
meaningful relationship or sustained
growth.
Therefore,
now that we are out on our own,
there would be more thorns than fruit.
The vegetation would be seeking to protect
itself from being eaten, such that we,
in looking for food,
would have to work and adapt our
environment to our needs.
Man would have to learn to work to
be useful and to become valuable,
or he would die sooner rather than later.
The contrast remains palpable.
Rather than labor harmoniously in Gan Eden
with Yahweh, making it better,
thereby protecting and perfecting it,
as God had intended,
they contributed nothing.
Instead of a combined effort to make us
all better,
the first time they were shown lifting a
finger was to do precisely what they had
been asked to reject.
As a result, from now on,
their focus would be on the more immediate
and mundane issues of survival.
The Earth was good,
the most conducive planet to life in the
universe.
But nonetheless,
bad outcomes lurked behind every prickly
bush.
With the sparse knowledge they possessed,
they would either make
good, better,
or they would make bad worse.
This is what they had chosen for
themselves, and it was only fair.
Having disregarded Yahweh's guidance,
there would be a less appealing menu,
and effort would be required to prepare it
for consumption.
It would be rough out there.
Even in an environment designed and finely
tuned for life,
Out in the wild, even lazy lions die.
And if the two sides of Lakem,
bread and war, were relevant, boy,
is it ever applicable now.
The divergent definitions of Lakem would
come to be the story of man,
bread and war,
the hallmark of civilization.
Bread or war.
It would remain this way with our history
demonstrating that bread would bring
humans together and war would tear mankind
apart.
In the end, of course,
we know that the prophets said that war
would become global, even as many starved.
And if not for the arrival of the
ad, this restoring witness,
the human experience would turn out to be
for naught.
Without the transformation of the ad,
this eternal testimony provides,
humans would forever remain estranged from
God,
ill-equipped to ever be trusted off this
planet.
Now, mixing his metaphors,
as is Yahweh's custom, ha-adamah,
That gave rise to Adam and the Dan
and it's at tree as the ad,
the restoring witness is going to serve to
determine whether a man returns to the
garden or to the dust of the earth
is man,
nothing more than a collection of earth
and particles physically as a body.
Or is he to be restored as a
soul and to fellowship with God?
Who among us will be purged by the
ash of ha-adamah, parah,
rather than remaining dirty,
retaining their filth?
Will you be among ha-adam,
allowed to return to Gan Eden,
restored forevermore by the ad?
Atz-Diath, Tree of Knowledge, Choder,
Stem, Adama-Para,
Bloody Red Man of the Earth,
who is a productive bull,
and Bashar-Herald,
who is Obed-Edom and Yadah.
What's your choice?
So let's turn back the clock to the
beginning of God's story where
We were introduced to Adam and Ha-Adamah
in Be'er R'shith two five,
pursuant to the value of Abad work.
There we read,
and then Adam did not exist to work
Abad, the earth, Be'er R'shith two five.
Even at that time,
I shared that we would come back to
where we began.
to the value of making a contribution.
Water rose, we were told,
from the depths in the presence of
ha-adamah in this next statement,
foretelling how the final determination
offered in Bab Rishi three-nineteen would
be fulfilled six thousand years
thereafter.
It reads,
a subterranean supply of fresh water rose
up out of the land.
By this he watered or supplied water to
the whole face,
presence and appearance of Adama,
this bloody red man of the earth.
This was Bar Reshith two six.
And as I reminded our listeners then,
Obed is from Abad, and Edom is Adam,
with the addition of a wa before the
mem,
which is the means to puncture the adamah,
so that the subterranean waters, the mem,
are released.
Immediately thereafter,
God reinforced the connection between Adam
and Ha-Adamah via afar.
He said,
then Yahweh Almighty formed for
association and accompaniment the man out
of the material substance,
the dust and ash,
the apar of the earth.
He blew into his nostrils anasama,
a conscience, a capacity to be rational,
to exercise good judgment.
of being discerning and discriminating for
lives, for more than one life,
restoring and sustaining lives.
And the man came to exist as a
soul with consciousness,
which is the ability to observe and
respond for life.
Baba Rashid, two seven.
Now, in a moment,
I'll explain why the afar,
the dirt and ash,
is particularly relevant to the
restoration of Adam, of man.
But for now,
appreciate the contribution our nesama
conscience,
the capacity for rational thinking and
good judgment of recognizing the
difference between right and wrong,
discernment and discrimination make in our
lives and where it can lead.
Without it, there would be
only one che, which would end in death.
It is only when our nesama conscience
augments our nephesh consciousness,
which is our ability to observe and
respond during our che lifetime,
that we are trusted by God to leave
this planet on another life.
And in this regard, Eden
is our opportunity to witness the doorway
to life.
That's why there's the tree of lives in
the midst of the garden.
So moving from one statement to the next,
Yahweh revealed that he is responsible for
life and its growth,
and that these things happen in
conjunction with Ha-Adamah,
this bloody red man of the earth that
becomes Yahweh.
The man from Edom, according to Yahshua.
And they are directly attributable to
these two trees, Chaim and Diath.
You see, God said, Yahweh,
who is God Almighty,
he enabled life to sprout up and grow
from Adamah.
Every aspect of the tree there to provide
counsel and advice through diligence and
effort on the entirety of the plan for
the purpose of overcoming challenges.
To advocate the proper response is
delightful, desirable,
and pleasing as he is fruitful in
delivering a productive and treasured
harvest.
to visually portray that which is clear
and comprehensible,
conveying a supernatural revelation,
and as a beneficial and good,
productive and pleasing thing to consume
for nourishment.
Haetz, the tree of ha-chamim, of lives,
was in the center of ha-gan,
this sheltered garden,
along with ha-etz, the tree of ha-diath,
the knowledge of good and productive,
valuable and beneficial, and bad,
wrong and corrupt,
inappropriate and indeed ignorant.
Bar Reshith two nine.
Included within these introductions and
associations
We found ha-Adam, ha-Adamah,
and Obed-Edom, a-Nesamah, a-Nephish,
and Chayim, even Afar and Abad.
Then we learned of the Atz serving as
a moreh,
providing Chayim lives and the other
Dayath knowledge.
They were all firmly rooted
at the commencement of the Gan Garden.
The depiction of the Etz Dayat brought us
forward in time to the Choder,
where the depictions and the purpose
overlap seamlessly.
Now, shortly thereafter,
once Yahweh realized that man would have
to grow up and toughen up to be
an interesting,
productive and reliable partner rather
than a parasite,
we were introduced to the fall of man
and to the rise of the Bashar,
the human herald.
Do you recall?
So Yahweh Almighty,
he caused the fall of man for being
comatose due to a lack of work and
diligence.
He, man, slept, inert and inactive,
unmotivated and sedentary.
And so he grasped one of his ribs,
symbolic of that which was limp and lame
from his side.
And he sutured up and isolated the place
beneath and succeeding it,
even replacing it over time with a Bashar
human herald.
Prophetic, isn't it?
Barbara Sheath, Genesis two, twenty one.
Well,
that is a major eye-opener if her mind
is open.
The message of that herald was even
announced by Adam.
If you recall, he said,
then the man said,
this is the way to conduct one's life,
the pattern of behavior to be followed and
the motivation to push forward.
its essential nature,
the very substance of existence,
out of my essence, a Bashar,
a human herald,
as a living being able to communicate
intelligently,
conveying my desire to share positive
thoughts as a herald for humanity.
That was Barbara Sheath, two-twenty-three.
We were even offered a harbinger of the
covenant with Abraham and Sarah,
foreshadowing the initial condition of the
Bereth.
You recall, accordingly, therefore,
it is also right that a man shall
leave his father and his mother and engage
becoming close with his woman,
and they shall exist as a unified Bashar.
Human proclamation regarding heralding the
pronouncements of life
That was two-twenty-four.
So having established the purpose of the
Bashar,
let's not forget that Yanoah also
introduced Yadah.
Because surely by contrast and
alternatively, God,
he is fully cognizant and totally familiar
with Yadah.
He is aware of and recognizes that instead
and as an alternative,
during the day you consume it from him,
taking this,
then your eyes and perceptions,
even your vision and perspective,
will cause you to be perceived as
observant and enlightened as you herald
and appreciate,
enabling you
you to perceive and see,
judging for yourself and deciding what is
right and wrong.
Then you will actually become suitably
similar and more comparable to God.
Continuing to know Yada by being
discerning and discriminating,
thereby understanding and acknowledging
the comprehension
of good, of that which is beneficial,
productive, pleasing, and correct,
and of bad, that which is wrong,
disappointing, and detrimental, hurtful,
and injurious, distressing,
because it is deeply troubling.
That was Bar Rishi three five.
The adversary was actually telling the
truth in this regard,
fully aware that anyone and everyone would
misconstrue this message.
And in response,
Yahweh would offer his cold voice conveyed
by his Ruach spirit in the proper day
to encourage mankind to listen and learn.
So the eyes,
the perceptions and perspective of both of
them were opened,
and they recognized by contrast that they
were naked and exposed.
So they stitched together fig, foliage,
branches, and leaves,
acting to make for themselves a covering.
Then with ongoing implications over time,
they actually heard that which pertains to
the cold voice of Yahweh Almighty as he
independently and on his own initiative,
unaffected by other influences,
traveled about concerning Hagan,
this enclosed and sheltered garden,
concerning the Ruach,
the spirit of the day.
Therefore, the man, Adam,
and his woman withdrew as he moved away
by himself, no longer assisted,
influenced, or helped by anyone.
From the very presence of Yahweh,
almighty God,
severed in the midst of Hagan,
the sheltered garden's etz tree.
there to provide counsel and advice
through diligence and effort on the
entirety of the plan for the purpose of
overcoming challenges and to advocate for
the proper response.
Bar Reshith, third chapter,
eighth statement.
So with the players properly positioned,
I have an additional connection which must
be understood to complete God's story.
I want you to appreciate the value of
the afar
in man's restoration.
By doing so,
you'll come to understand why God
concluded his garden narrative with,
this is because a collection of particles
comprising matter,
even grayish dust and ash, are you,
making you dirty.
And among dust or by ash,
you will return either brought back
or restored forevermore.
This is Bar Reshith, three-nineteen.
So if you want an explanation of what
God was specifically talking about here
and why this was prophetic of something
that he would relate later in the Torah,
we're taking forward now from Bar Reshith
Genesis into Midbar Numbers,
particularly the fifth chapter.
And so I want to explain how we
as humans now have been given the
opportunity to determine whether or not we
are returned to the dust from which we
came or transformed and allowed to
approach God by way of the ash
that he will provide.
This is the ultimate choice for everyone.
So for an explanation of this,
we thumb forward to number five and the
restoration of what's perceived to be the
adulterous woman that is religious Israel
today.
This is how it reads.
Yahweh spoke to Moshe to say,
provide instruction and direction
regarding the children of Israel such that
they voluntarily send out from the
encampment everyone who is infectious,
whether mentally disoriented or
chronically bothered by anxiety,
hopelessly confused or plagued by a
pandemic disease or perhaps leprous.
In addition to everyone with oozing sores,
discharging copious amounts of pus,
including those with venereal disease,
as well as everyone whose soul is
contaminated, polluted,
or defiled with religious idolatry.
That is Numbers five one and five two.
both male and female, men and women,
boys and girls,
as memorable and restoring witnesses.
You should constantly send them away to
outside the encampment,
putting them apart where the community is
living so that they do not contaminate or
corrupt it so they don't infect anyone
else.
Their community in which,
for the benefit of the relationship and to
show the correct path to get the most
out of life,
within which I am dwelling,
within their midst.
In other words,
if you're then corrupted by any
transmittable disease,
the most debilitating of which is
religion,
you need to be separated from others.
Separated indeed.
So in the preamble to the cleansing of
the adulterous woman, Yahweh is,
by using contagious pathogens as a
metaphor,
telling us how we should deal with those
whose toxic political and religious ideas
are contagious, going viral.
Isolation is God's recommendation.
And I concur.
therefore the children of israel did so
and they sent them out such that they
were a part in a public place outside
the encampment of the community consistent
with the beneficial manner yahweh had
spoken to moshe the family engaging and
enduring with god did what was right
yahweh designed us he knows how to keep
us safe
And in this regard,
God realizes that misleading political and
religious platitudes are as infectious and
deadly as any disease.
Therefore,
these people who are desirous of living
with God must either remove this constant
and caustic element from their midst,
Or they must move away from them.
That is our choice.
I constantly see Israel bragging that,
you know,
that it's the best place for Christians to
survive the best place for Muslims to have
freedom and this sort of thing.
And it was exactly the opposite of what
God said.
We need to be isolated from religion and
politics.
It should have been obvious to everyone
long ago that when Yahweh speaks of
adultery,
he's addressing those who are disloyal to
him and to his son,
cheating on them with false gods and a
false messiah.
He is unconcerned over the number of
girlfriends or wives the men who advance
his agenda may share,
which is obvious when one considers the
totality of God's story.
This then reads,
Yahweh spoke to Moshe to say,
declare this to the children of Israel,
branded with a stigma as a sign of
being possessed and controlled by another.
Is a man or a woman who chooses
to continually act upon or habitually
engage in any part of that which is
offensive and wrong with ensuing guilt,
for having missed the way,
particularly if they lead others astray.
By acting in an adulterous and unfaithful
manner,
being defiant and treacherous in an
attempt to be superior to Yahweh,
the soul of this person will be deemed
guilty and will suffer the consequence of
having done this.
Bob Midbar, five, six.
So here,
Yahweh was speaking through Moshe for our
benefit because the children of Yisrael
made the single worst decision in human
history.
Just a few years back from this moment,
in his presence,
after he had freed them from being
enslaved under conditions which had become
tantamount to genocide,
they actually told God to his face to
shut up and go away.
They said they never wanted to see him
or hear from him again.
This is why Yahweh spoke indirectly
through his prophets for the next one
thousand years.
It is why they were wandering around in
the wilderness.
The Israelite problem progressed to the
point that they strayed so far from Yahweh
that they actually forgot his name.
And so he did not intervene on their
behalf.
And he allowed ten of the twelve tribes
to be hauled away into oblivion.
And even then,
even with the best of the twelve, Yahudah,
after a while there were none with whom
to communicate.
And that is why God asked and then
equipped Hanakar, the observant foreigner,
as the man from Edom,
to serve as his cold voice to awaken
Yisrael before they stepped so far away
from Shabu, Teruah,
the conflagration of the Adam of Parah,
that they missed Yom Kippurim and its
homecoming entirely,
forfeiting their opportunity to return to
the garden on Sukkah.
Being wrong and missing the way,
especially leading others astray,
has become the Israelite stigma,
a brand they have seared upon themselves.
From God's perspective,
it is adulterous and offensive.
It has become a sign of defiance and
revolt because so many have claimed to
speak for the God that they have silenced,
talking over him in the Talmud,
against him in the New Testament.
The consequence is guilt and it is this
rotten residue that must be sponged even
after we have stopped adding to it.
For those desirous of being included in
the Shabuwa Katsir, the Teruah Lakot,
their souls will have to be purged by
Dode.
with him having taken their guilt with him
into Sheol during matzah.
However,
for the remnant left behind during the
final gleaning and with no intervening
chag matzah to remove the fungus prior to
Yahweh's return, well,
it's going to have to be tossed,
all of it,
on the mutilated carcass of the Adamah
Parah, where it will be incinerated.
It bears repeating the primary use of
adultery in the Torah has nothing to do
with sexuality or marriage.
The men and women portrayed in the Torah
were not monogamous,
and they were neither criticized for
having more than one lover,
nor were they encouraged to act
differently by God.
What Yahweh expressed here and in context
provided throughout his Torah and Nabi,
makes it obvious that his concern is his
people cheating on the covenant
relationship by being religious.
For the past twenty-four years,
I have filled the pages of Yadda Yahweh
with this message.
We must come to appreciate what is right
and what is wrong.
what is good and what is bad,
and take the initiative to acknowledge
where we ourselves have erred.
Even then we must cast that which is
wrong aside,
separating ourselves from all that
separates us from God.
It is then that we are subject to
being restored.
And it is only then that anyone can
begin the path to return home.
Now,
recognizing that we have been led astray
by religious affiliations and political
parties,
the first step in the right direction is
disassociating from both.
And in this case,
Yahweh's instruction was presented in the
Hitpael stem,
which states that this admission and
resolve must be of our own initiative.
This means that the barrier to entry for
most is that the filth they continue to
carry with them, this religious rubbish,
that they recognize that God's not going
to allow it in his home.
And we push it away from us.
We isolate it from us.
On their own initiative, this reads,
unaffected by others,
they should understand, acknowledge,
and then cast aside, yada,
their guilt from having been wrong and
therefore misleading,
that they had engaged and up to this
point in time.
Then he can return transformed and
restored with the first and foremost,
making a reconciling guilt offering for
him.
adding something over and above the fifth
to it.
And so,
for the benefit of the relationship,
he will offer this as a gift at
this particular point in time on behalf of
the one who was guilty and liable for
the wrongdoing.
Ba Midbar, Numbers, five, seven.
Overall,
it's a fairly simple and straightforward
process.
Come to know and acknowledge that religion
and politics are misleading and that God
wants us to disassociate from both.
It's the first condition of the covenant,
to walk away from Babel.
Cast these villains aside.
Recognize that Yahweh has a plan to
resolve the guilt incurred by us prior to
accepting the truth about him.
We do it in this order.
We walk away from the entanglements and
the corruption of religion and politics,
and then begin our path to God.
Now,
almost anyone can be restored and come to
Yahweh by acting upon this message once
restitution is made to resolve prior
guilt.
For most,
they will capitalize upon what Dode has
done for us on Matzah.
when he removed our shame and he carried
it with his soul into Sheol,
where he deposited it such that it will
never be seen again.
However, eight years from now,
the final Passover,
uneasted bread and firstborn children,
prior to the king's return, well,
they will have come and gone.
Those who were among the last to observe
Chag Matzah and capitalize upon the
Messiah's gift will be among the souls
that are gleaned during the fifth mizmor.
Or Moed, I should say.
That being Teruah, the Mikra,
Mikrav Teruah.
Those who had not,
who were left behind,
will now need to have their guilt removed
by Yada,
who will be serving as the Adam of
Parah.
It is his sacrifice as the productive bull
that's going to provide the final
opportunity to come clean and to come
home.
Yes, it is the fifth.
Moed Mikrae.
that makes this possible.
Therefore,
the preamble to the story of the
adulterous woman.
In it,
Yahweh is revealing that there will be a
time when those who were deliberately
passed over and excluded from
participating in the fifth Moed due to
their lingering guilt and who have
failed to avail themselves of Dode's
sacrifice, well,
they're going to need immediate
restitution.
And for this,
Yahweh's final reconciler will offer to
remove their guilt and to have it
obliterated with what is left of his
Bashar, mortal body.
As foretold,
the Adama Parah's gift of reconciliation
will be presented during and beyond the
fifth Moed.
He will offer his life to restore the
remnant of Yisrael,
all on the cusp of the Messiah's return
on the sixth Moed.
Consistent with the prophecy of the Adam
of Parah,
the bull's sacrifice will cleanse the
remnant souls by accepting and then
incinerating their religious and political
malfeasance.
The Israelites will be, of course,
in this predicament with only days
remaining because heretofore they have
been
discredited and denied their gaal their
kinsman redeemer and so while he will be
returning to his city the city of dode
the remnant will have to find
transformation and restoration this other
way on the fifth moed therefore the final
zaroa after having
devoting himself to cultivating the katsir
and hakot of Shabuwa and Teruah,
will offer restoration by honoring the
promise foretold of the bull of the day
of the herald.
And as the hopeful stem suggests,
he will be as compelling and forceful as
words and deeds allow.
There will be no better option,
nor will there be a day after tomorrow
for those who neglected this offer and
look elsewhere.
It's a time to be observant.
So what follows reveals that even after
the time of Yisrael's troubles,
as it concludes on Teruah,
The conclusion of a horrific war,
the testimony of the two compelling
witnesses,
the completion of two magnificent
harvests,
and the spectacle of the Adam of Parah,
where God ignites the flames and releases
the torrent of subterranean waters.
The Israelites will remain a bit hesitant.
They will not be returning to El-Yah
to capitalize on this gift from God in
any great hurry.
Many will be, well,
as they have always been, stubborn,
recalcitrant.
But at this late moment,
Yahweh will not allow his Zeruah sacrifice
to be annulled.
So he will apply it as he deems
fit.
And as we read these words,
which will be the last of this program,
I want you to know that it is
evident that the bull and the ram,
who are the prince and the king,
will work together in this regard to
transform Israel.
So if there are a few to approach
this individual to be redeemed,
to be transformed and restored.
The guilt offering,
which provides restitution,
will be for whom the removal of guilt
for reconciliation will actually change
and restore such that they can approach
Yahweh.
Accordingly,
the one acting in the role of priest
in addition to the ram of reconciliations
for the benefit of the relationship will
make amends
through the removal and purging of guilt
with him and for him.
Bob Midbar, Numbers five, eight.
I don't know what God could possibly do
to make it more obvious that the story
of the adulterous woman is about the
stigma of religiosity still staining
Yisrael.
Their propensity to favor religion over
the covenant relationship.
and that the Adamah Purah is going to
serve alongside of the ram.
That reconciliations that is provided by
the ram will be enabled by the purging
effect of the Adamah Purah.
And that one act will lead to another.
And that over this remarkable ten day
period
Israel will be in a position to make
amends through the removal and the purging
of the people's guilt.
This is the story of Teruah.
This is why Koporum becomes possible.
This is the path back to the Gan
Eden on Sukkah.
So thank you for spending this hour with
us and for your interest in returning to
the garden.
Good day.